Threats to DB's

	##Malicious Threats

	Human Error (Authentication Violations, Nonrepudiation)
	
	Malware Attack;
		Viruses/Trojans/Worms/Spyware/Bots
		SQL Injection
		DDOS

**Human Error

One of the biggest threats to database security is from authorised users who do not follow proper safety protocol because of a lack of education or carelessness; this can lead to 'Authentication Errors'.  Errors by users include;

*Leaving a computer logged in while unattended, for example: if going out for lunch a user does not lock computer.

*Weak password - Use of common or simple password making it easy for hackers to guess.

*Visiting illegitimate websites or downloading malicious attachments.

*Illegitimate disclosure of information, such as a password, to unauthorised personnel.

Email, instant messaging and Social Networks are the most common means of virus spread.  Social engineering is used to convince users to open an email, click on a link or possibly even download an attachment, opening up a database to harm.  Phishing is a form of email attack that uses social engineering to convince users to hand sensitive information over to a cracker, such as a password, which they can then use to attack databases. 

Nonrepudiation methods should be used to track users’ access and manipulation of a database, so if there is an error or attack it will be able to be traced back to a particular user account.


**Malware Attack;

Although Databases can be configured to only allow local access, increasingly they are placed on the cloud or a specific server, with access allowed through the internet or across a network.  This openness creates possible security threats from malicious planned computer attacks over the network.  Furthermore, increasingly important business, financial and personal information is uploaded into Databases, making them enticing and profitable targets for intruders.

There are over 600,000 malware programs at large on the internet.  Malware is a term for malicious software that is designed by intruders to carry out unauthorized activity on a computer or network, these can often be damaging of destructive to a database.

Malware comes in the following forms;

*Viruses/Trojans/Worms/Spyware/Bots

Viruses are self-replicating pieces of software that install themselves on a computer without user consent.  Once installed, they can often carry out harmful attacks on databases.  They can access private information, log keystrokes, corrupt/manipulate data, along with numerous other harmful acts.

Trojans are malicious programs that disguise themselves as legitimate programs.  Unlike viruses they do not replicate.  They can be used to harm/manipulate databases or carry out other remote attacks.

Worms can be seen as a specialist version of virus, with the major added danger that they do not need user input to travel through a computer network. Worms are self-learning and will use information on vulnerabilities they found on one computer to infect the next computer on a network, potentially harming databases if programmed to do so.

Spyware is a type of virus that monitors your computer/database to steal your information without your knowledge.  The information is sent back to the Spyware creator to use as they wish.

Bots are malicious programs that install themselves on your computer with the intent of controlling it.  Bots are controlled by a cracker who may be able to control thousands of computers by infecting them all with Bots.  Bots can be used for a Denial of Service (DOS) attack, where they flood a CPU with requests, slowing it down till it becomes unusable, or else doing the same to a network or database, to shut it down. 

*SQL Injection

SQL injection is a particular danger to databases and other data driven systems.  It involves malicious SQL statements being inserted into the entry field of a database and then executed.  Hijacking website URLs and sending information through a web-browser is a common attack "vector".  SQL injections can be used to reveal confidential database information to an attacker, or carry out unauthorised manipulation of a database, causing harm to a database.

Reference for all this part; Database Security, Basta (Author), Publisher: Delmar Cengage Learning (26 July 2011)
